Where are files stored?
✅ Secondary memory
Explanation: Files are stored on secondary memory (e.g., hard drives, SSDs, USB drives) for long-term storage.

What is stored in a "file handle" returned from open()?
✅ The handle is a connection to the file's data
Explanation: A file handle is a reference to the file, allowing Python to read from or write to it without loading all the data into memory.

What does the second parameter of open() indicate?
✅ Whether we want to read data from the file or write data to the file
Explanation:

"r" → Read mode

"w" → Write mode

"a" → Append mode

"rb"/"wb" → Binary modes

Which Python function prompts the user for a file name?
✅ input()
Explanation: input() gets user input as a string, which can then be used as a file name.

What is the purpose of the newline character (\n) in text files?
✅ It indicates the end of one line of text and the beginning of another line of text
Explanation: Text files use \n to separate lines. Without it, all text would appear on a single line.

What statement reads a file one line at a time?
✅ for line in xfile:
Explanation: This loop iterates over each line in the file, reading one line at a time.

What does the following Python code do?

python
Copy
Edit
fhand = open('mbox.txt')
x = 0
for line in fhand:
    x = x + 1
print(x)
✅ Counts the lines in the file 'mbox.txt'
Explanation: The loop iterates over each line in the file, incrementing x for every line, which gives the total line count.

Which Python string function removes extra blank lines?
✅ rstrip()
Explanation:

rstrip() removes trailing whitespace (including extra newlines) from a string.

Useful when reading files where lines may have extra newlines.

How do you prevent a program from crashing when a file does not exist?
✅ try / except
Explanation:

python
Copy
Edit
try:
    fhand = open(fname)
except:
    print("Error: File not found")
This catches the error and allows the program to continue instead of crashing.

What does this Python code do?

python
Copy
Edit
fhand = open('mbox-short.txt')
inp = fhand.read()
✅ Reads the entire file into the variable inp as a string
Explanation: The .read() method loads the entire file content into a string variable.
